About this book

Luke obeyed what Jesus taught. He was also a doctor. People think that he was not a Jew. He wrote this book some time between the years AD 59 and AD 80. Some people think that he wrote it in the city called Rome. He wrote it for a man called Theophilus. He was an important Roman officer and he was a rich man.

Luke also wrote the book for other people that believed in Jesus. It would help them to know Jesus better. Then they could answer questions when people asked them about him. Many people had wrong ideas about Jesus. Luke wanted people to know what was true.

Luke writes about the Good News. The Good News is that God wants to rule in the lives of his people. God will rule in the lives of Jews and of those people that are not Jews. Luke tells us who Jesus is. And he tells us how Jesus was born. He also tells us about his life and death. Luke explains to us why Jesus came to earth. He also explains what he did during his life here. And he tells us how he went to live with God again. And, at the end, he explains to us about God’s gift of the Holy Spirit.

Luke knew that Jesus had told people about the Good News. Jesus wanted his people to let everyone in the world know the message about himself. Luke wanted everyone to know what Jesus had said.

The book of Luke is in 4 parts:

1. What happened before Jesus started his work (1:1 – 4:13).

2. What happened when Jesus was working in the country called Galilee (4:14 – 9:50).

3. What happened when Jesus was working in the countries called Judea and Perea (9:51 – 19:27).

4. What happened in the city called Jerusalem in the last week of Jesus’ life (19:28 – 24:53).

Chapter 1
1 Great things have happened in our country. Many people have tried to write about them. 2 Some people were present when these things started to happen. They saw everything that happened. They told us what they had seen. And they told us what they had heard. They are the people who told the Good News. 3 Most important Theophilus, I have checked all these facts. Now I also know about all the things that happened from the beginning. I am writing to tell them to you. It is good for you also to know all these facts. This is the reason for this letter. 4 You have already heard about all these things. Now you can be sure that they are true.

What happened before John the Baptist was born

5 There was a man whose name was Zechariah. He lived when Herod was king of Judea. Zechariah was a priest and he belonged to a group of priests from the family of Abijah. He had a wife called Elizabeth. And they were both from the family of the priest called Aaron.

This Herod was called Herod the Great. He was king in Judea from the year 37 BC to the year 4 BC.

A priest is a special servant of God. He worked at the Jewish meeting place or at the Great House of God in Jerusalem. All the priests came from the family of Aaron. He was the brother of Moses. They both lived a long time before Jesus. We can read about Aaron in the book called Exodus. There were 24 groups of priests. One group at a time worked in the Great House of God. Every group had a name. Zechariah was in the group of Abijah.

6 Zechariah and Elizabeth obeyed God all the time. They did not do wrong things. God liked how they lived. 7 But they had no children. Elizabeth could not have a baby and they were both getting old.

At that time, people without children thought that God was angry with them. Elizabeth and Zechariah would have felt very sad because they had no children.

8 One day, Zechariah’s group was working at the Great House of God. And Zechariah had a special job to do. 9 The priests chose one of their group to go into a special room inside the Great House of God. Zechariah’s job was to burn incense there.

They did a special thing to know who would go into the room. It was something like a game that we play. But it was serious and important.

10 While Zechariah was burning incense, many men were outside the special room. They were praying to God.

The Jews made incense from special sticky liquid that they got from certain kinds of trees. It makes a sweet smell when it burns. They used it in the Great House of God. They burnt incense in God’s house while they prayed. God had said in his rules that they should do this.

11 The incense was burning on a special table, when an angel from God appeared to Zechariah. The angel was standing at the right hand side of the table.

An angel is a servant of God that brings his messages. The ‘right hand side’ means the place of importance.

12 When Zechariah saw the angel, he was very surprised. He was also very afraid. 13 ‘Zechariah, do not be afraid’, the angel said to him. ‘God has heard what you prayed. He will give you what you asked for. Your wife Elizabeth will have a baby boy. You will call him John. 14-15 He will be very important to the Lord. So, he will make you very happy. Many other people will also be very happy because he has been born. He must never drink anything with alcohol in it. From the time that he is born, the Holy Spirit will live inside him.

16 He will teach many people in Israel. Then they will turn their lives towards the Lord their God and they will obey God again. 17 John will prepare the people for the Lord. The Holy Spirit will lead John as he led Elijah. John will be as powerful as Elijah was. He will help fathers to love their children. He will teach people that do not obey God. Then they will think right things. And they will do right things that good people do. John will prepare Israel’s people. Then they will be ready when the Lord comes.’

God chose Elijah to speak for him. The Holy Spirit showed him what to say. Elijah gave special messages from God to his people. He taught them to stop doing the things that God did not like. He told them that they should obey God. We can read about Elijah in 1 Kings, chapter 13.

The people of Israel came from the family of Abraham, Isaac, Jacob and their children. We call them Jews. God chose them as his special people. He gave the name Israel to Jacob. We can read about Abraham, Isaac and Jacob in Genesis.

18 ‘How can I be sure about this?’ Zechariah asked the angel. ‘After all, I am an old man. My wife is also old.’

19 ‘I am called Gabriel’, answered the angel. ‘My place is in front of God. I am always ready to work for God. He has sent me to speak to you. He told me that I should tell you this good news. 20 Now listen to me. Because you did not believe my message, you will be quiet. You will not speak again until the time that your son is born. My message will become true at the right time.’

21 While this was happening, the people outside were waiting for Zechariah. They were thinking, ‘Why has Zechariah stayed for such a long time in the special room? Why has he not come out yet?’ 22 When he did come out, he tried to talk to them. But he could not speak. So they knew that he had seen something special in the room. He was moving his head and his hands about, to tell them what had happened. But he remained quiet.

23 When Zechariah had finished his work in the Great House of God, he returned home. 24 Soon, a baby was growing inside his wife Elizabeth. She stayed in her house for 5 months. 25 ‘The Lord has now given me a baby’, she said. ‘He has been kind to me. He has helped me to feel good about myself. Because of this, other people cannot say bad things about me any longer.’

What happened before Jesus was born

26 When Elizabeth’s baby had grown inside her for nearly 6 months, God sent the angel Gabriel to Nazareth. Nazareth is a town in Galilee. 27 Gabriel went there to visit a young woman. Her name was Mary. She had never had sex with anyone. She had promised to marry a man called Joseph. He belonged to the family of King David.

David had been a king of Israel. We can read about him in 1 Samuel, chapter 16.

28 Gabriel arrived. ‘Hello, Mary’, he said. ‘God loves you very much. He is very near to you.’

29 Mary had a lot of problems in her mind about what Gabriel said. She did not understand why he said it. 30 ‘Do not be afraid, Mary’, Gabriel went on to say. ‘God has been kind to you. 31 Listen! A baby boy will grow inside you. When he is born, you will call him Jesus. 32 He will be great. The strong God above will call him his Son. The Lord God will make him king. He will rule as King David ruled. 33 He will rule over the family of Jacob for all time. He will be king for all time.’

Both Joseph and Mary came from the family of King David.

The family of Jacob means all the Jews.

34 ‘How can this happen?’ Mary asked. ‘I have never had sex with anyone.’ 35 ‘The Holy Spirit will come to you’, the angel answered. ‘The power of God will cover you like a shadow. So, your child will be completely good. He will never do anything that is wrong. He will be called God’s Son. 36 Another thing! Your cousin, Elizabeth, is very old. People said that she could not have a baby. Listen! She also will have a son. The baby has grown inside her now for nearly 6 months. 37 There is nothing that God cannot do.’

38 ‘I am the servant of the Lord’, Mary answered. ‘I have heard what you have said. I want the Lord to cause it to happen to me.’ Then the angel left her.

Mary visits Elizabeth

39 After that, Mary prepared herself and she left on a journey. She hurried to a town in the hills of Judea. 40 When she arrived at the home of Zechariah, she said, ‘Hello’ to Elizabeth. 41 When Elizabeth heard Mary speak, she felt her baby move quickly inside her. The Holy Spirit filled her. 42 Then she spoke to Mary in a loud voice, ‘God has made you very happy. He has been more good and kind to you than to other women. He has also been good and kind to your baby. 43 I am not an important person and you are the mother of my Lord. So, it is a very good thing that you have visited me. 44 Listen! When I heard you say, “Hello” to me, the baby moved quickly inside me. He was very happy. 45 The Lord told you what would happen. And you believed what he told you. This makes you a very happy person.’

This is Mary’s song

46 Then Mary said,

‘All of me wants to say to the Lord, “How good and great you are!”

47 I am happy because of God. It is he who saves me.

48 I do not think that I am an important person.

God knows this, so he has looked at me with love.

Listen! From now on all people will say that

God has been very good and kind to me.

49 After all, God has done great things for me.

He is very powerful and strong.

He is good in everything.

50 He is kind to people that obey him.

He is also kind to all their children. He will do this for all time.

51 He has shown how strong he is.

Some people think that they are very important.

But he has sent them away alone in different directions.

52 Some people were ruling countries.

But he has taken their important jobs away from them.

He has given important work to people that do not feel important.

53 He has fed hungry people with good things.

He has sent rich people away with nothing.

54 He promised that he would never forget his people, Israel.

Now he has helped them.

55 He made a promise to Abraham and to our other fathers.

“I will be kind to you for all time”, he said. Now he has done what he promised.’

Mary is very happy. She knows that God has been good to her and to Elizabeth. She sings about God. She sings about the great things that he has done. She sings that he will use his power to be kind. He will also use his power against people that do not obey him. Mary is a Jew. She remembers God’s promise to the Jews.

56 Mary stayed with Elizabeth for about three months. Then she returned to her home.

John the Baptist is born

57 Then it was time for Elizabeth to have her baby. She had a son. 58 Her family and the people that lived near her heard about her baby. They knew that the Lord had been very kind to her. They saw that she was happy. So they were happy too. 59 When the child was 8 days old, they came to the house of Zechariah and Elizabeth. The child had to be circumcised on that day. The people wanted to call the child Zechariah. This was the same name that his father had.

They circumcised all baby boys in Israel on the 8th day. It means to cut off the skin from the end of the sex part of a boy or a man. For the Jews, it was a special mark. It showed that they were the people of God. Friends and people that lived near would also be there. They had a party and they gave a name to the boy. We can read about this in Genesis, chapter 17.

60 ‘No’, said Elizabeth. ‘His name will be John.’

61 ‘You cannot really want his name to be John!’ they said. ‘You do not have anybody in your family called John.’ 62 Then they moved their hands at his father. They wanted to know the boy’s name.

63 So Zechariah asked for something to write on. He wrote, ‘His name is John.’ Everyone was very surprised at what he wrote. 64 Immediately, Zechariah could speak again. He could speak very well again. He began to tell God, ‘You are very great!’

Everything had happened quite as the angel had said. We can read what the angel said in 1:19-20.

65 The people that lived near Zechariah and Elizabeth were surprised. They were surprised about what had happened. They saw how great God was. Many people that lived in the hills of Judea also talked about all these things. 66 Everyone that heard about these things thought about them. ‘What will this child be?’ they asked each other. After all, they could see that God really was with him.

This is Zechariah’s song

67 The Holy Spirit filled John’s father. Then he spoke well about God. The Holy Spirit helped him to speak this message.

68 ‘The Lord God of Israel is a great God.

He has come to save his people.

69 He has sent a very strong person that will save us.

This person is in the family of David. David was his servant.

70 Long ago, God gave his Spirit to good people so that they could tell us about this.

This is what they said:

71 “God will save us from our enemies.

He will save us from everyone that hates us.

72 He has promised to be kind to our fathers.

He will remember to do the things that he promised.”

73 Yes, he will remember the promises that he said to Abraham.’

Because Christians are a part of the family of Abraham, God promised this to them too.

74 ‘ “I will keep you safe from your enemies.

Then you can work for me and not be afraid.

75 You can work for me in the right way.

You can do this all your lives.” ’

76 Zechariah then spoke to his child.

‘You, child, will be called a servant of the great God above.

The Holy Spirit will give to you messages to speak.

You will go in front of the Lord to prepare a way for him.

77 You will tell his people how God can save them.

They have done wrong things but God will forgive them.

78 Our God will forgive us because he is very kind.

He will send someone from the highest place.

This person will be like the sunrise to us.

79 As the sun gives light to everybody, so he will shine on all people.

Some people are like people who are in the dark. They are living without God.

Some people are afraid to die.

But he will shine on everybody.

He will show us how to live so that we will not be afraid.’

Zechariah’s song shows how happy he is. God has been good to him and to Elizabeth. God has shown him how important John will be. Zechariah thanks God. He tells the people that God is great. Jesus is the strong person that God sent (1: 69).

The ‘sunrise’ (1:78) is a picture in words. It describes Jesus when he came to earth. God told Zechariah what John would do. John would speak to the people. He would tell them that Jesus was coming. Zechariah also knew why Jesus was coming to the earth.

80 Zechariah’s child grew. God made him strong in his mind. He went and he lived in the desert for many years. Later, God sent him to Israel’s people, to teach them.

The word desert means a very dry place. People do not usually live there.

You can read what John taught the people in chapter 3.