Unity User Manual (5.5)
Use the Unity Editor to create 2D and 3D games, apps and experiences. (Download the Editor at unity3d.com.)

The Unity User Manual helps you learn how to use the Unity Editor and its associated services. You can read it from start to finish, or use it as a reference.

New

Features introduced in 5.5: What’s New in 5.5
Upgrading Unity projects from older versions of Unity: Upgrade Guide
Best practice and expert guides

Best practices from Unity Support engineers: Best Practice Guides
Expert guides from Unity developers, in their own words: Expert Guides
Unity User Manual sections

Main.UnityOverview
Working in Unity

A complete introduction to the Unity Editor.

Main.Unity2D
Unity 2D

All of the Unity Editor’s 2D-specific features including gameplay, sprites and physics.

Main.Graphics
Graphics

The visual aspects of the Unity Editor including cameras and lighting.

Main.PhysicsSection
Physics

Physics in the Unity Editor, including Rigidbody components and manipulating them in 3D space.

Main.UNet
Networking

How to implement Multiplayer and networking.

Main.ScriptingSection
Scripting

Programming your games by using scripting in the Unity Editor.

Main.Audio
Audio

Audio in the Unity Editor, including clips, sources, listeners, importing and sound settings.

Main.AnimationSection
Animation

Animation in the Unity Editor.

Main.UISystem
UI

The Unity Editor’s UI system.

Main.Navigation
Navigation

Navigation in the Unity Editor, including AI and pathfinding.

Main.Services
Unity services

Main.VROverview
Virtual reality

Main.ContributingToUnity
Contributing to Unity

Suggest modifications to some of the Unity Editor’s source code.

Main.PlatformSpecific
Platform specific

Specific information for the many non-desktop and web platforms you can make projects for with the Unity Editor.

Main.LegacyTopics
Legacy topics

Useful if you are maintaining legacy projects.


Further sources of information

Unity Answers or Unity Forums - here you can ask questions and search answers.
The Unity Knowledge Base - a collection of answers to questions posed to Unity’s Support teams.
Tutorials - step by step video and written guides to using the Unity Editor.
Unity Ads Knowledge Base - a guide to including ads in your game.
Everyplay documentation - a guide to the Everyplay mobile game replay platform.
Asset Store help - help on Asset Store content sharing.
Known issues

Is a feature not working as you expect it to? It might be an existing Known Issue. Please check using the Issue Tracker at issuetracker.unity3d.com.
Manual Versions
As we continually improve Unity, new features are added, existing features are improved - and sometimes old features are removed. With each release, the Manual and Script Reference changes to reflect this, and so you should make sure you are using the correct version of the manual to match the version of Unity you’re using.

The latest version of the documentation is always available online at docs.unity3d.com

In addition to the online manual, the documentation can be installed locally on your computer when you install the Unity software. Prior to Unity 5.3, the documentation was always installed along with the software. From version 5.3 onwards, the Unity Download Assistant allows you to optionally include the documentation for local installation.

For most users, you will be using the latest version of Unity, and therefore the latest version of the documentation.

Some users will need to use older versions of Unity. This might be the case for you if you are maintaining a legacy project, or if you have locked-down to a particular version of Unity during long-term developent of a project.

If you are using an older version of Unity, the locally-installed documentation will match that version of Unity. However if you chose not to install local documentation, older versions of the Unity documentation are available online at the following locations:

Older versions of the Unity 5 documentation:

Version 5.4: docs.unity3d.com/540
Version 5.3: docs.unity3d.com/530
Version 5.2: docs.unity3d.com/520
Version 5.1: docs.unity3d.com/510
Version 5.0: docs.unity3d.com/500
Older versions of the Unity 4 documentation:

Version 4.6: docs.unity3d.com/460
Version 4.5: docs.unity3d.com/450
Version 4.3: docs.unity3d.com/430
Version 4.2: docs.unity3d.com/420
Version 4.1: docs.unity3d.com/410
Version 4.0: docs.unity3d.com/400
Older versions of the Unity 3 documentation:

Version 3.5.5: docs.unity3d.com/355
Version 3.5.3: docs.unity3d.com/353
Version 3.5.2: docs.unity3d.com/352
Version 3.5.1: docs.unity3d.com/351
Switching between Unity versions in the documentation
The Unity Manual and Scripting API hold documentation for several versions of Unity. You can switch between the two latest versions by clicking on the link at the top-left of this page, above the table of contents.


It is not currently possible to look at an individual Unity documentation page and switch between its versions. Switching versions always takes you back to the home page.

To learn how to use a temporary workaround, follow these steps:

From the Manual or Scripting API home page, switch the version you are viewing using the Version link in the top-left corner of the page. Note that the structure of the URL changes. Each version has a specific URL:

Unity Manual

Destination	URL
Standard URL	http://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/index.html
Version-specific URL (5.5)	http://docs.unity3d.com/550/Documentation/Manual
Version-specific URL (5.4)	http://docs.unity3d.com/540/Documentation/Manual
Version-specific URL (5.3)	http://docs.unity3d.com/530/Documentation/Manual
Unity Scripting API

Destination	URL
Standard URL	http://docs.unity3d.com/ScriptReference/index.html
Version-specific URL (5.5)	http://docs.unity3d.com/550/Documentation/ScriptReference/
Version-specific URL (5.4)	http://docs.unity3d.com/540/Documentation/ScriptReference/
Version-specific URL (5.3)	http://docs.unity3d.com/530/Documentation/ScriptReference/
Now, navigate the Manual and Scripting API as usual. If you want to switch between versions, change the number in the URL to reflect which version you wish to view. This workaround works for all currently published versions of the documentation.

Sometimes, you might get a 404 error when you switch over. This happens if the page you’re looking for doesn’t exist in that version of the Manual or Scripting API. This is often the case if the feature isn’t present in the corresponding version of Unity.

A note from the Unity Docs team:

Many users have told us that this situation is not ideal, and we want you to know that we have heard you. Please be assured that we are working on a fix to preserve the page you are on while switching versions.

Thank you for your patience while we work to make the Unity documentation a more efficient and intuitive tool for our users.

Last updated: December 12th, 2016
Offline documentation
The offline documentation is temporarily unavailable for download from this page. You can install the offline documentation by using the main Unity installer.
New in Unity 5.5
To find out about the new features, changes and improvements in this version, please see the 5.5 Release Notes.

If you are upgrading existing projects from an earlier version to 5.5, read the Upgrade Guide to 5.5 for information about how your project may be affected.